HUBERT H. HUMPHREY
Former Vice President of the United States
Remarks Conceding the Presidential Election in Minneapolis, Minnesota
November 06, 1968
I thank you very much. Nice to know. I am sure you know that I have already called Mr. Nixon to express to him our congratulations, and I have sent the following telegram just a few moments ago to Mr. Nixon. It reads as follows:

"According to unofficial returns, you are the winner in this election. My congratulations. Please know that you will have my support in unifying and leading the nation. This has been a difficult year for the American people. I am confident that if constructive leaders of both our parties join together now, we shall be able to go on with the business of building the better America we all seek in a spirit of peace and harmony. Signed, Hubert H. Humphrey."

Now let me say just another word.

Senator Muskie and I wish to thank the people who supported our nomination and election. I've been in touch with the Senator already this morning and talked with both the Senator and his family.

I wish especially to thank my family, some of whom are here with me, and my campaign staff and particularly to thank Mrs. Humphrey, who was the secret weapon in this campaign, and as I said to some of you last night, to thank each and every one of you.

I intend to continue my dedication to public service and to the building of a responsive and vital Democratic party.

I shall continue my personal commitment to the cause of human rights, of peace and to the betterment of man. If I have helped in this campaign to move these causes forward, I feel rewarded. I have done my best. I have lost. Mr. Nixon has won. The democratic process has worked its will, so now let's get on with the urgent task of uniting our country. Thank you.

Now, go have some fun. It has been a lot of hard work. I don't want anybody to have any extra sympathy. As a matter of fact, what I'd like to have you do is just redouble your efforts to do what you thought you were doing and what I thought I was doing and maybe we can make an even greater contribution to the things that are important in this country.

I really don't feel very badly. I actually feel that we've done a heck of a job.

I don't want you to think we'll continue to campaign right away, but I — I just thought you ought to know you maybe ought to have a little rest. We intend to take some. We're not quite sure just what we're going to do in the next few days. We're going to stay out here in Minnesota. I haven't mowed the lawn for some time, and there still are a few things to do out at our place.

As a matter of fact, I feel a great sense of both release and relief, and I hope and pray that all of you will feel the same way. I want you to be of good cheer. I'd like to have you feel a little happy. It's not easy, hut quite frankly, this was an uphill fight all the way.

I was the first one to know it, and I think the last one on the line of my staff recognized it. I never had any doubt but what it would be a close fight, comme ci, comme ca, you know, one way—it bounced n little one way—it bounced a little another.

We've got a President-elect. He's going to have my help. Cheers.